octo-sync
=========
Application to synchronize files and folders across computer systems.

Octo-Sync is a computer program capable of automatically synchronizing a folder in different computers, connected through a network. Once the user changes or creates files/folders in the folder being synchronized, Octo-Sync will automatically transfer the changes to the other computer.

## Usage Overview ##
--------------------
- Install it;
- Open it on the folder you want to synchronize, to start hosting it;
- Open it on the other computer, which will synchronize with the host;
- The user can do what he wants inside the folder, Octo-Sync will take care of the rest;

## Packages required ##
-----------------------
- scp: Command to transfer files over a network using ssh encryption. Octo-Sync uses this command to do the actual file transfers;
- sshpass: Used to pass user password directly to scp, without prompting the user to write it;
- openssh-server: To receive files with scp from other machine, a machine needs to be running a ssh server, this package installs the openssh server;
- To build: GCC (>= 6.3 recommended) and make

## Installation ##
------------------
```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/pentalpha/octo-sync.git
$ cd octo-sync
$ make
```
## Usage ##
-----------
```sh
$ ./octo-sync host hostAddress=[local-ip-address] hostPasswd=[a password]
```

The host will wait for a connection from other computer on the network:

```sh
$ ./octo-sync sync hostAddress=[host-ip-address] hostPasswd=[same password from above]
```

More detail on the arguments can be accessed with the -h argument, the output is the following:

```sh
$ ./octo-sync -h
sync or host
	The operation to perform: either host or sync;
	The host must be the first instance to be executed, it will wait for a connection;
	The sync connects to a host that is waiting for a new connection;
Use [arg-name]=[value] to pass arguments:
* = obrigatory
syncDir
	 The directory to synchronize. Default = ./;
hostAddress
	* Hosting machine ip;
hostPort
	 Hosting machine port. Default = 50002;
localPasswd
	 Local machine (sync or host) user password. The remote will use this password on the scp command;
hostPasswd
	* Server password of the host. Used to login;
scpPort
	Specify a port for the scp command. If not specified, the default will be used;
logLevel
	Minimum level of log messages. A lower value means more output. Default = 7;
```

## Development details ##
-------------------------

The project was developed using the C++11 language. The language was chosen keeping in mind that the main objective of the project is educational. C++ grants direct access to the system calls and the use and comprehension of them is one of the main objectives of the DIM615 subject. C++ is also a popular language that can be compiled on most environments. Also, the binary generated by the C++ compiler don’t need anything but itself to run: no need to install an interpreter or other software like with Java or Python. The C++11 standard was chosen because it makes C++ a more modern language and offers many new and useful features. The compiler used was GCC 6.3.

The source code was written with the Visual Studio Code editor, an open-source code editor developed by Microsoft that enables C++ autocomplete and syntax highlighting. The only external library, not part of C++’s STL, used was tinydir (https://github.com/cxong/tinydir). It consists of a small header file to be used to iterate through directories and files. It was useful to scan folders recursively, listing the files contained. No debugging software was used, just the output of the logging system (logging.h) was already enough to diagnose errors.

## Future features ##
---------------------

- Trash: Once a file is deleted with octo-sync, there is no going back. A trash folder would make the program more safe.
- Stop using user password: sending the password of the user over the network is not safe at all. Future versions of octo-sync will use ssh keys.
- Multiple machines connected to host: why is it called octo-sync, from octopus (animal with many members), if only two sides can synchronize with it? Well… i also plan to do it on the future.


